readme.md, before:


# Binar Challenge 6

Challenge 6 Binar is an Creating Example Backend for Cars Rental using Express JS, Knex JS as ORM, POSTGRESQL as Database, and Cloudinary as Storage

## Entity Relationship Diagram
![image](https://images2.imgbox.com/19/69/sXag3Sx8_o.png)



## Documentation
[POSTMAN API](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/22908412/2s9YeD8DHn)


## SEEDER
```
email: superadmin@gmail.com
password: 12345678
```

## API Reference

### LOGIN
```
{{host}}/api/login
```

### CURRENT ME

Need JWT
```
{{host}}/api/current-me
```

### CARS API
```
Authorization: Bearer Admin
```

### GET all cars

```
  GET /api/cars
```
#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success retrived data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed
```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```

### GET Cars by id

#### Request Body
```
  GET /api/cars/${id}
```

| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `string` | **Required**. Id of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success retrived data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed
```
  Status Code: 404
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed retrived data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Missing Params id",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```

### GET Cars by size

```
  GET /api/cars/size
```

| Query | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `size`      | `string` | **Required**. size of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success retrived data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed
```
  Status Code: 404
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed retrived data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Missing Query size",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```

### POST Cars

```
  POST /api/cars
```

| Body | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `name`      | `string` | **Required**. name of cars to fetch |
| `cost_per_day`      | `integer` | **Required**. cost_per_day of cars to fetch |
| `size`      | `string` | **Required**. size of cars to fetch |
| `car_picture`      | `file img` | **Required**. car_picture of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 201
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success create data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed create data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```

### PATCH Cars

```
  PATCH /api/cars/:id
```
| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `string` | **Required**. id of cars to fetch |



| Body | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `name`      | `string` | **Required**. name of cars to fetch |
| `cost_per_day`      | `integer` | **Required**. cost_per_day of cars to fetch |
| `size`      | `string` | **Required**. size of cars to fetch |
| `car_picture`      | `file img` | **Required**. car_picture of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success create data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed update data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```


### DELETE Cars by id

```
  DELETE /api/cars/${id}
```

| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `string` | **Required**. Id of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success delete data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed delete data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```



### User API

For GET Method minimum
```
Authorization: Bearer Admin
```

For POST, PATCH, DELETE
```
Authorization : Beared Superadmin
```

### GET ALL USER

```
{{host}}/api/users
```

### POST CREATE USER

```
{{host}}/api/users
```

| Body | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `username`      | `string` | **Required**. username of users to fetch |
| `email`      | `string` | **Required**. email of users to fetch |
| `password`      | `string` | **Required**. password of users to fetch |
| `role`      | `string` | **Required**. role of users (ADMIN/SUPERADMIN) to fetch |


### PATCH UPDATE USER BY ID

```
{{host}}/api/users/:id
```

| Body | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `username`      | `string` | **Required**. username of users to fetch | must different 
| `email`      | `string` | **Required**. email of users to fetch | must different
| `password`      | `string` | **Required**. password of users to fetch |
| `role`      | `string` | **Required**. role of users (ADMIN/SUPERADMIN) to fetch |


### DELETE USER BY ID

```
{{host}}/api/users/id
```


## Environment Variables

To run this project, you will need to add the following environment variables to your .env file

`CLOUDINARY_NAME`
`CLOUDINARY_API_KEY`
`CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET`
`POSTGRESQL_HOST`
`POSTGRESQL_DATABASE` 
`POSTGRESQL_USER` 
`POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD`



## Installation

Install this repo with npm

```bash
  npm install
```

Install this repo with yarn

```bash
  yarn install
```

Start the server

```bash
  npm dev
  yarn dev
```


    
## Demo

Insert gif or link to demo

Commit message:

add deployment link and docker image

readme.md, after:


# Binar Challenge 8

Challenge 8 Binar is an Creating Example Backend for Cars Rental using Express JS, Knex JS as ORM, POSTGRESQL as Database, and Cloudinary as Storage
AND
Adding Deployment configurations using dockerfile

## PUBLIC
[Link Deployment](https://binar-ch-8-backend-production.up.railway.app/)
[Link DockerImage](https://hub.docker.com/r/juruloss/binarch8)

## Entity Relationship Diagram
![image](https://images2.imgbox.com/19/69/sXag3Sx8_o.png)



## Documentation
[POSTMAN API](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/22908412/2s9YeD8DHn)


## SEEDER
```
email: superadmin@gmail.com
password: 12345678
```

## API Reference

### LOGIN
```
{{host}}/api/login
```

### CURRENT ME

Need JWT
```
{{host}}/api/current-me
```

### CARS API
```
Authorization: Bearer Admin
```

### GET all cars

```
  GET /api/cars
```
#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success retrived data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed
```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```

### GET Cars by id

#### Request Body
```
  GET /api/cars/${id}
```

| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `string` | **Required**. Id of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success retrived data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed
```
  Status Code: 404
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed retrived data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Missing Params id",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```

### GET Cars by size

```
  GET /api/cars/size
```

| Query | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `size`      | `string` | **Required**. size of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success retrived data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed
```
  Status Code: 404
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed retrived data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Missing Query size",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```

### POST Cars

```
  POST /api/cars
```

| Body | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `name`      | `string` | **Required**. name of cars to fetch |
| `cost_per_day`      | `integer` | **Required**. cost_per_day of cars to fetch |
| `size`      | `string` | **Required**. size of cars to fetch |
| `car_picture`      | `file img` | **Required**. car_picture of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 201
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success create data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed create data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```

### PATCH Cars

```
  PATCH /api/cars/:id
```
| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `string` | **Required**. id of cars to fetch |



| Body | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `name`      | `string` | **Required**. name of cars to fetch |
| `cost_per_day`      | `integer` | **Required**. cost_per_day of cars to fetch |
| `size`      | `string` | **Required**. size of cars to fetch |
| `car_picture`      | `file img` | **Required**. car_picture of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success create data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed update data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```


### DELETE Cars by id

```
  DELETE /api/cars/${id}
```

| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `string` | **Required**. Id of cars to fetch |

#### Response Success
```
  Status Code: 200
  {
     status: "OK",
     message: "Success delete data cars",
     data: cars, 
  }
```
#### Response Failed

```
  Status Code: 400
  {
     status: "ERROR",
     message: "Failed delete data cars",
     data: [],
  }
```

```
  Status Code: 500
  {
     error
  }
```



### User API

For GET Method minimum
```
Authorization: Bearer Admin
```

For POST, PATCH, DELETE
```
Authorization : Beared Superadmin
```

### GET ALL USER

```
{{host}}/api/users
```

### POST CREATE USER

```
{{host}}/api/users
```

| Body | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `username`      | `string` | **Required**. username of users to fetch |
| `email`      | `string` | **Required**. email of users to fetch |
| `password`      | `string` | **Required**. password of users to fetch |
| `role`      | `string` | **Required**. role of users (ADMIN/SUPERADMIN) to fetch |


### PATCH UPDATE USER BY ID

```
{{host}}/api/users/:id
```

| Body | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `username`      | `string` | **Required**. username of users to fetch | must different 
| `email`      | `string` | **Required**. email of users to fetch | must different
| `password`      | `string` | **Required**. password of users to fetch |
| `role`      | `string` | **Required**. role of users (ADMIN/SUPERADMIN) to fetch |


### DELETE USER BY ID

```
{{host}}/api/users/id
```


## Environment Variables

To run this project, you will need to add the following environment variables to your .env file

`CLOUDINARY_NAME`
`CLOUDINARY_API_KEY`
`CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET`
`POSTGRESQL_HOST`
`POSTGRESQL_DATABASE` 
`POSTGRESQL_USER` 
`POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD`



## Installation

Install this repo with npm

```bash
  npm install
```

Install this repo with yarn

```bash
  yarn install
```

Start the server

```bash
  npm dev
  yarn dev
```


    
## Demo

Insert gif or link to demo
